Hello and welcome everyone to this
week's Stella developer meeting. With me
today I have two guests that have been
around here before  from Open Seelin.
around here before from Open Seelin.
And what we're going to do today is
we're going to take a look at what has
been added to the Open Seelin tool chain
and and the libraries that are
supporting Stellar  for the last
supporting Stellar for the last
quarter. So I'm super excited. I know
we're going to start we're going to talk
about smart contracts. We're going to
talk about  RWAS. We're going to talk
talk about RWAS. We're going to talk
about WAS. So, so yeah, please
introduce yourself and  let's get
introduce yourself and let's get
started.
>> Yeah. Hello everyone. It's really a
>> Yeah. Hello everyone. It's really a
pleasure to be  to participate again
pleasure to be to participate again
at the stellar developer meeting.  my
at the stellar developer meeting. my
name is Buan. I'm open source developer
at  at open zeppelin. , and I'm
at at open zeppelin. , and I'm
building the stellar contracts library.
>> Hi everyone, it's Ugun here. ,
pleasure to be here. Good to be here.
And I am also an open source developer
at Open Zeppelin. We are a team with
Voyan trying to bring  trying to
Voyan trying to bring trying to
improve the smart contract ecosystem for
Stellar Sorovan.
>> Great. Thank you. So we've done quite a
few hackathons this year and  it's
few hackathons this year and it's
really great to see that some of the
developers they're starting to use open
sin  software and the the libraries
sin software and the the libraries
and the tooling.  and I think what
and the tooling. and I think what
what you're going to show today is going
to be really interesting for a lot of
developers. So if you have a
presentation you can share.
>> Yes. I I will start. ,
let me show my screen.
[clears throat]
Yeah, there it is. Sorry. Sorry about
that. , yeah. So
I'm going to present to you today the
[clears throat]
smart account framework that we
created  with  released with the
created with released with the
latest u  latest release of of our
latest u latest release of of our
library.
just to to mention   that  yeah
just to to mention that yeah
already a month ago when with some of
you  we met at  at Meridian in in
you we met at at Meridian in in
Rio.  how excited I I was  and I I
Rio. how excited I I was and I I
guess it was the case for everyone to
use  pass keys to  have all this
use pass keys to have all this
like wallet experience abstracted into
into  into smart account. So  our
into into smart account. So our
ambition is to make this the new normal
for stellar. So yeah we are  building
for stellar. So yeah we are building
this  framework u  with with that in
this framework u with with that in
mind. So without  further ado yeah
mind. So without further ado yeah
let's dive in.  first
let's dive in. first
a point about naming and why we chose
smart account and not smart wallet.
first [clears throat] the storebone
SDK defines  custom account and custom
SDK defines custom account and custom
account interface and our design builds
on top of it. So that's why  we  we
on top of it. So that's why we we
decided to to choose  smart account as
decided to to choose smart account as
a as a naming  and yeah smart account
a as a naming and yeah smart account
must implement this interface.
then why smart accounts are
necessary?  let's just explore a very
necessary? let's just explore a very
simple scenario.
where a smart account  that holds
where a smart account that holds
some funible tokens
and  the owner of the contract wants
and the owner of the contract wants
to transfer some amount and that's why
they need to call a function on the USDC
contract. In this case,
they will make use of a cryptographic
key that is registered at this smart
account  to authorize the the
account to authorize the the
operation.
And by looking from this perspective, we
the perspective of account abraction,
we  we are establishing a boundary
we we are establishing a boundary
between the account that holds the sets
and the keys that  that control them.
and the keys that that control them.
now let's try to define what a smart
account is. So  let's this is a smart
account is. So let's this is a smart
contract first and foremost that
composes authorization intents that are
coming from  multiple sources and this
coming from multiple sources and this
high level  definition will guide us
high level definition will guide us
through the the the all the com the all
the components of our framework.
with this in mind, let's first see
what are what the authorization sources
could be.  as in the previous example,
could be. as in the previous example,
an authorization source could be a
cryptographic key or there could be
multiple cryptographic keys  for the
multiple cryptographic keys for the
same smart account or it could be a G
account that authorizes on behalf of
of the smart account or it could be any
combination of of these  cryptographic
combination of of these cryptographic
keys, G accounts or other smart accounts
and  smart contracts.
and smart contracts.
the next part of the definition
talked about authorization intents.
what are and yeah we will see what are
the core elements of  of the
the core elements of of the
authorization intent.
we can examine this by  answering
we can examine this by answering
these three questions. We can define who
is  allowed to act  what are they
is allowed to act what are they
allowed to do and how those permissions
are enforced.
who is allowed to act? This might be
already clear.  those could be  some
already clear. those could be some
keys from different  cryptographic
keys from different cryptographic
curves also G accounts  C accounts.
curves also G accounts C accounts.
what are they allowed to do? Well,
here this can be literally any kind of
action  either a specific function on
action either a specific function on
a specific contract or just  transfer
a specific contract or just transfer
the transfer function on any SCP 41
compatible contract deploy deployments
as well. So yeah, any kind of action
how is this enforced also many
different combinations are possible. It
could be key one and key2. Key1 or key2
key1 and some other conditions that are
not derived from the  from a
not derived from the from a
cryptographic  scheme
cryptographic scheme
and to give names to those groups. Who
is for signers? What is the scope and
how how is for the policies?
how do we compose those elements?
So we have  signers scope and policies
So we have signers scope and policies
and we embed them in the entity called
context rule.  here you see that
context rule. here you see that
besides the signer scope and the
policies we also have the the notion of
validity.
context rules  function like
context rules function like
routing table for authorizations for
every context. they they specify the
scope and the conditions that must be
met  before the authorization  is
met before the authorization is
granted and  yeah we'll see how this
granted and yeah we'll see how this
this goes very shortly. So a a smart
account is stores a set of those context
rules and  up to 15 rules per we can
rules and up to 15 rules per we can
have up to 15 rules per smart account.
We added this limit to ensure there  a
We added this limit to ensure there a
reasonable resource consump consumption
and to encourage proactive management.
For example, to encourage you to remove
the expired or unused rules.
And coming back to this  authorization
And coming back to this authorization
mechanism or algorithm, actually it's
pretty simple.
when the authorization from a smart
account is required first we  we
account is required first we we
gather and order all non-expired rules
and then we evaluate them starting from
the last addit last last addit one
now let's zoom into signers
we have two types of signers
delegated and external
a delegated signer can be any sorbon
address, G account or C account. And
on the right  we group all
on the right we group all
cryptographic types of  schemes or
cryptographic types of schemes or
keys in  in the external variant. And
keys in in the external variant. And
we'll see just in a second why we
call it external.
But first  how the delegated signer
But first how the delegated signer
grants  an authorization. Codewise
grants an authorization. Codewise
it's  very simple. we use the built-in
it's very simple. we use the built-in
require out for arcs  function and
require out for arcs function and
however there is a catch   I of how
however there is a catch I of how
we are actually constructing this
this transaction
I won't go
I won't dive into this sketch  I
I won't dive into this sketch I
it's like  you can find more
it's like you can find more
information about it in the
documentation and there are some code
snippets explaining how to to get
over it.  just  mentioning it  and
over it. just mentioning it and
that  the cap 71 that hopefully gets
that the cap 71 that hopefully gets
included in some of the future
protocol updates will resolve these
issues. So  yeah  very soon I hope
issues. So yeah very soon I hope
it will be a u no issue.
the second signer type is the
external one for authorizations coming
from  cryptographic keys.
from cryptographic keys.
But  before we look into into that,
But before we look into into that,
I'm here providing a list of the curves
on stellar
there the already available ones
that are supported and BN 256 that might
get added with protocol 25.
and yeah, I I guess  there there
and yeah, I I guess there there
could be many more in the future.  and
could be many more in the future. and
you remember the structure of  of the
you remember the structure of of the
external serer
like to go back it's a tle of address
and by and byes
we could have defined its structure like
this by enumerating all available curves
and the [snorts] bytes that should be
interpreted according to the to the
curve type. But you you would agree that
this approach is not very scalable
because on every new curve that is added
you have to upgrade your account  if
you have to upgrade your account if
it supports it and this is not practical
at all.  another drawback of embedding
at all. another drawback of embedding
signature verification into the smart
account is that it binary size will grow
and the code complexity will increase as
well. For example, the ED the classical
ED  25
ED 25
119 like it's just one liner but pass
key verification for example is pretty
much is more evolved and requires more
like more code simply
this pushed us to adopt a way more
flexible and scalable approach that is
outsourcing and externalizing all type
of signature verifications.
So we have a verifier contract
that stands for this address and the
public key that is the the bytes.
this verifier contract is a special
one. It is deployed only once per curve
type or scheme and should be immutable.
it's  it shouldn't keep any state and
it's it shouldn't keep any state and
in such way a single verifier contract
can validate signature signatures for
any any number of keys.
and yeah this was made possible
thanks to protocol 23  and  that
thanks to protocol 23 and that
made the  the cross contract calls
made the the cross contract calls
really cheap.
Now let's look into policies.
So we have here
one context rule with the scope, the
signers and the policies. Let's say we
have three signers, two cryptographic
keys and one G account. And actually the
policies
they they modify they customize the
how signers behave. Here in this case
we require any two of those three
signers to sign  to sign so that the
signers to sign to sign so that the
authorization
passes it's the policies also can modify
some other aspects of  of the flow
some other aspects of of the flow
here. In this case, we want those
rule to be enforced only for once per
month.
so that like you can for example pay for
a subscription.
So policies are external contracts as
like verifiers.
the verifiers are external. So
policies are also external contracts.
Policies can be stateful or stateless
meaning they can  map some state
meaning they can map some state
for a specific account  and context
for a specific account and context
rule. They can be shared across many
different  accounts  or can be tied
different accounts or can be tied
just for a specific  smart account.
just for a specific smart account.
And the other aspect is that they have a
four stage  life cycle.
four stage life cycle.
which is visible from the interface that
those policies must  adhere to.
those policies must adhere to.
Now if we look into this   spending
Now if we look into this spending
limit policy, it is  let's say it's a
limit policy, it is let's say it's a
stateful policy and it is shared across
multiple smart accounts. When this
policy is added to a context rule, the
install hook is called and this in its
the storage for the calling account and
sets the amount and the time period. For
example, here we'll have 100 USDC and
one month. This is the  in in it
one month. This is the in in it
params that are   pass can enforce
params that are pass can enforce
is just a read function that is
invoked every time  the evaluation
invoked every time the evaluation
loop runs.
Enforce on the other hand it requires
authorization from the  already
authorization from the already
installed smart account and modifies can
modify the storage and  can emit
modify the storage and can emit
events.
Uninstall is called when the is removed.
So we are cleaning up the policy
storage. So install and uninstall are
used only once  can enforce on every
used only once can enforce on every
evaluation loop and enforce when
context rule is matched.
So these are the main elements of smart
account and yeah to sum it up we  we
account and yeah to sum it up we we
have we can have up to 15 context rules
per smart account and each context
through contains signers and policies.
So let's see some use cases.
yeah the most  like  trivial one
yeah the most like trivial one
is  the multisix  threshold bas
is the multisix threshold bas
based or  like the weighted
based or like the weighted
multics. We can have with this u
setup we can have time limited app
sessions. For example you install
context rule that is specific for a
specific app and it's valid just for one
day.
so you don't so you can interact with
this app without needing to approve any
any further transactions. you can  add
any further transactions. you can add
for example the keys for AI agent or bot
to as a context rule and allow it to
spend some like  limited amount of
spend some like limited amount of
your assets so it can trade for example
and you don't risk to get wrecked or
you can  subscribe for  some
you can subscribe for some
services. So yeah let and here let's see
how the subscription the flow the user
flow for a subscription will happen. So
I have a smart account and I have the
sudo sudo rule like the the super admin
rule  that is  has a single signer
rule that is has a single signer
my pass key and there are no policies
and it's  valid  forever.
and it's valid forever.
Then I I'm going to u some DAP and I
want to  subscribe to a service. The
want to subscribe to a service. The
DAP prompts me to install a context rule
that contains the scope of it is  the
that contains the scope of it is the
USD contract because I'm going to pay in
USDC.
The signer is the D pub key.  and the
The signer is the D pub key. and the
policy is  some spending limit polic
policy is some spending limit polic
policy that limits the the spending for
up to 20 20 bucks per month and I'm
subscribing for one year. So this is the
single transaction I have to do u in
order to subscribe for this service.
And from this moment on the DAP
developer for example they can use
the open zeppelin monitors to subscribe
to the install event  on this policy
to the install event on this policy
and when this gets triggered  they
and when this gets triggered they
will with a relayer they with the
opposite layer they will charge the user
smart accounts every  every month
smart accounts every every month
20 bucks.
So the key takeaways this  this
So the key takeaways this this
framework is
context centric framework. I will
compare it as the I'm comparing it very
often with the web to login experience.
For example, when you are logging it
with your Google account  or your
with your Google account or your
GitHub account like you  authorize the
GitHub account like you authorize the
third party  with some specific
third party with some specific
permissions. We grant some scope
permission. you don't grant the whole
access to your data but just to very
like  scoped permissions. So we are
like scoped permissions. So we are
composing  authorization intents
composing authorization intents
through those context rules that contain
signers and policies.
Another very important aspect is that
signature verification is not hardcoded
into the smart account. So it is this is
very flexible and very scalable and
yeah like this framework  enables
yeah like this framework enables
programmable authorization in in that
manner.
So yeah if you  want to play with it
So yeah if you want to play with it
I'm inviting you to go to our repo and
to check our  docs.
to check our docs.
and yeah I'm pausing it here for
questions  if there are any.
questions if there are any.
Great. It it was really interesting.
we have seen a lot of interest in in
using pass keys and I think I think
there's so many ways to do like there's
so many capabilities in Sora for
authorization but it's also complicated.
It's not it's not straightforward
forward and easy. I think the the wealth
of opportunities to create custom
policies and authorize your users in
different ways. I think it it it's
great, but it's also a little bit
complicated. So, the framework you
present here makes that a lot easier. I
think this will be be a great great way
to to add a flexible  authorization to
to to add a flexible authorization to
to your DAP. So very interesting to see.
I think I'll I'll drop the link to the
to the repo or to the documentation. But
if anyone has any questions, I think
yeah, Elliots has a question here.
>> yeah, did you say that Ozair can be used
to index track additions removal or
Yeah. Yeah, definitely.  I mean you
Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I mean you
there are some events that you can
subscribe  on
subscribe on
subscribe for those events on the
policies or on the  on the your smart
policies or on the on the your smart
account and yeah do   do  yeah
account and yeah do do yeah
trigger some actions according according
to whatever you want to do.
, one naming concern, smart account
will likely overlap with stellar
accounts and could confuse the idea that
this is a contract.
>> Mhm.
Yeah. ,
yeah. I I presented why we ch why we
went with smart account. , yeah.
mentioned that that this is this may
seem a better fit for   for yeah
seem a better fit for for yeah
this kind of
entities
stellar accounts you mean the the
classic stellar accounts I yeah I
suppose this is what you mean
but  yeah I a smart Don't
Yeah. Yeah. We have to give it a
thought. But I I I
think we can it can
be disting distinguished well enough so
not to be confused.
It would be great to include a 15minute
demo of building an actual d. Great
suggestion. [laughter]
I'm taking it.  taking it.
Yeah.
Okay, then
I'm passing it to to O.
>> Right.
>> Hi again everyone. I'm going to be
presenting
the world token world and also RWA.
So let me share the screen. Let's
do entire screen.
Please tell me if it's successful
because I don't see the
streaming tab right now.
>> Yep, we see we see your presentation.
>> Yep, we see we see your presentation.
>> Great. Great.
Let's try slideshow.
So, what's it  that I'm going to be
So, what's it that I'm going to be
talking about?  it's a uniform
talking about? it's a uniform
interface for integrating with various
yield generating strategies also known
as ERC 4626 if you are familiar with the
Athereum ecosystem.
The problem tokold solving is let's say
you have a th00and USDC
and what are you going to do with this?
You can lend it, you can provide it for
liquidity
or you can stake it, right?  but these
or you can stake it, right? but these
are all the options you can do
or you can have a manager of your funds
for  utilizing the best option out
for utilizing the best option out
there. But
for every manager you will have
different problems. There is no
interoperability. There is no
composibility.
The UX in general would be bad.
So, vault tries to standardize all these
and it still can be managed.
So, this is what we are trying to do.
So, you deposit your assets into the
world. The world tries to
utilize your assets in the best way and
earn some interest and you will get
shares in return. And you can always
do
transitions between shares and
assets. You can convert them
interchangeably.
So how do we calculate shares and
assets? So let's say you deposit your
assets and you will get shares. The
basic formula for that would be  we
basic formula for that would be we
will multiply the deposit assets by the
total shares currently in the world and
then we divide the this result by total
assets in the world and that whole
result will be your shares.
This will be very important.  so now
This will be very important. so now
that I'm going to do some basic math
but it's very basic so don't be scared.
first action
Say Alice deposits 100 USDC into the
vault.
So for deposit assets it's th  100
So for deposit assets it's th 100
total shares it's again 100 and total
assets is  100.
assets is 100.
So let's say 10% yield is earned
and now the asset amount per share has
increased. So previously one asset
was  corresponding to one share but
was corresponding to one share but
right now
since the total shares have not changed
it only the interest rate increase the
total asset amount
in the world
then this ratio should change right
right now if you provide one share you
will get 1.1 1 asset in return because
one 10% of interest rate and now Bob say
Bob  deposits 300 USC
Bob deposits 300 USC
and we do this calculation and Bob will
get will get 272.73
shares in return. So it's not one to one
mapping as in the case for Alice
because there was 10%. And this is still
fine because  if you multiply the
fine because if you multiply the
shares by 1.1 you will get 300. So it is
still fair.
And let's say another 10% of  interest
And let's say another 10% of interest
has happened and now Charlie deposits
200 and the amount for shares would be
165.
The problem is in this previous slide is
we have
these decimals, right?  this is not an
these decimals, right? this is not an
integer but it's kind of a floating
number. This is problematic because
how do you handle 3.33 shares for
example? You cannot. So for shares
we round up or down.
When we do we round down when do we
round up. So let's say you are minting
or depositing depo depositing we are
rounding down your number of shares so
that you'll get slightly fewer shares
than the exact ratio. The reason is
world cannot overmint shares and we have
to provide  we have to protect the
to provide we have to protect the
world  not the users so that attacks
world not the users so that attacks
won't happen.
So this is the same  this this
So this is the same this this
rounding down goes for minting and
depositing and the opposite one rounding
up goes for redeem and withdraw
operations for gold
which creates another problem which I
will demonstrate right now. Let's say
okay this is the inflation attack.
There is couple of versions of it.
let's say the attacker deposits one's
troop. So he minted a share
and right now one share will correspond
to one's troop only.
Then the keyword here is donates. It's
not deposit. So since it's not deposit,
it only increases the total asset amount
but not the shares. So it's basically
I'm just giving away this money to the
vault and I'm not expecting any shares
in return. Why would someone do this?
You will see the reason.  and if you
You will see the reason. and if you
convert the USDC to stroops  you know
convert the USDC to stroops you know
there are seven decimal places in
stellar so we added after 10,000 seven
more u zeros and then we added the
previous ones troop you will have this
number for total assets and now alice
deposits
thousands troops so if you divide
thousands troops to this total asset
amount
you will get something really small like
0.00001
or something like that and this will be
ultimately zero because of the rounding
down that I explained previously. So
basically Alice deposited some money
which which was non zero. It was
thousands troops but in return she got
zero shares and if the attacker redeems
their shares they will get all the money
basically stealing Alice's  troops.
basically stealing Alice's troops.
The other scenario would be in here. So
let's say again this the first two
scenario are the same attacker deposited
one troop and then they donated 1 thou
10,000 USDC
and after that say Alice deposited
10,000 USD so it's almost a half of the
total assets right but only one stroop
short of it so if you do the calculation
it will be somewhat like 0.99999
but since we don't have any precision
for the decimal points, it will again be
round down to zero and attacker would
steal all Alice's money like 10,000 USD
due to this rounding down behavior.
So this is the inflation attack. This is
not only for our implementation. This
attack existed through all ecosystems
and fortunately we have a solution for
that. The most common one is decimal
offset.
So instead of this regular  or the
So instead of this regular or the
straightforward calculation we also add
an offset to the power of 10
and it will be something like this. So
if you deposit one stroop instead of one
share you will get
this amount of shares.  this is up to
this amount of shares. this is up to
your decimal offset. So let's say 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 and in this case you will
have nine for the offset and you will
get this amount of shares
and let's say for the same attack the
attacker then donates
10,000 USDC
they won't get any shares because
it's a donation then Alice would deposit
10,000 strooss it would have been this
small amount previously if we didn't use
decimal offset but since we are using
decimal offset Alice will get one share
and attack won't be
attack won't resolve so basically
there is no attack due to this decimal
offset
any questions about vault
and I will just stop presenting
and we'll move on to RWA after
questions. By the way, maybe we can also
share a link for the world implement.
>> Yeah, just maybe we also want to
>> Yeah, just maybe we also want to
shout to shout out to
someone who  helped contributed to the
someone who helped contributed to the
implementation.
I don't know if he's on the call, GS
Maxi from Sentinel F. So yeah, he  he
Maxi from Sentinel F. So yeah, he he
helped with   this implementation.
helped with this implementation.
Yeah,
>> laid the groundwork and we
and he also helped us writing the SE
for world. We just got merged today by
the way.  so we have a new SE guys for
the way. so we have a new SE guys for
the world. All right, great. Then I can
continue with RWA.
So for this one, I'm going to be
presenting over some text instead of
slides.
Okay. , is the
is it readable or should I make it
bigger?
>> , maybe just slightly bigger. Yeah, I
think this is good.
>> Great.
So RWA as you know stands for real world
assets and it's more like a switch of
contracts
compared to a single contract. So it's
more complicated and involved for the
base RWA token. You can think of it like
a funible token. It has the same
metadata and core functions but on top
of that we have forced transfer  which
of that we have forced transfer which
the admins can force transfers on behalf
of the users. We have freezing both
address level and partial. Partial means
we can freeze some part of your wallet
balance. For example, maybe you have
2,000 in your balance and we only froze
500 of it. And address level is your
address is frozen for every like
transfer, mint, etc. operation. So
basically you are on hold.
We do also provide recovery mechanisms
in RWA.
In case of you lose your private key
then the authorities can recover your
wallet by
sending your balance to another wallet
and also all the account related
information of you as well.  for this
information of you as well. for this
recovery of course you have to convince
the authorities by providing the
necessary documentation. It's not part
of the RWA standard, but this is how it
will work on behi behind the scenes.
And you probably already know about
pausible operations for
the utility for other tokens as well.
This is the same for RWA token. We can
pause the operations for the contract.
So this base token contract is going to
be interacting with two modules or
stacks. One of them is identity, the
other one is compliance.
Identity stack will be responsible from
verifying your identity basically but
it's also very involved and I will get
into details later. And the other one is
compliance. This is mostly for hooks
post and pre hooks for the
operations
and this is this exists mostly due to
allow organizations or governments or
etc to include or embed their own
business logic into transfers and means
and burn operations.
So let's go step by step.  the RWA
So let's go step by step. the RWA
token as I told you is the main contract
and it
it communicates with compliance and
identity verifier. The compliance is
managing five hook types which I will
dive further deep into.
And the good thing about compliance and
identity verifier is they are
multi-token support which means let's
say you have a compliance contract you
can share this with multiple tokens
multiple RWA tokens. So let's say there
is another RWA token here. It can also
go to the same compliance contract. I
will give this example which I like.
Let's say you have bank A and bank B in
your country and since they are in the
same country probably the compliance
that they need to oblige to will be the
same. So they can use the same
compliance in this case.
Identity verifier again this can be
shared across multiple tokens.  it
shared across multiple tokens. it
validates the identity of the
investors of this
token.
I will dive this into later. So let's
skip for now.
If you go for the highle basics
for the token you need to provide the
name symbol decimals and initial supply
very standard basic stuff. Same with the
funible
and on top of the funible we will have
the freezing mechanisms. We will have a
recovery mechanism. We will have force
transfers and posible operations as I
told you.
So right now I already told about how
this compliance and identity stack can
be shared. So I'm going to skip this one
as well. So let's dive into identity
stack.
So there can be multiple ways to verify
identity. The one we provide which is
the default one is claim based. So
you can think of it like I'm from Turkey
and I'm a Turkish citizen and in this
RWA setting maybe  the residency is an
RWA setting maybe the residency is an
issue. So I must have a claim from the
authorities that I'm a resident
of Turkey. So I I need a residency
claim issued for me by the authorities.
And one downside of this approach can be
if it is not encrypted
then all the data for everyone since
this is onchain data can be seen by
everyone. So this is very useful but
also if you care about privacy it's it
may not be the best solution.
so there are other approaches as well
like  you can do Merkel tree, you can
like you can do Merkel tree, you can
do ZK email, you can do your own custom
approach. We do not provide these by the
way but they are for sure doable and we
designed the architecture in such a way
that this  coupling here is not tight
that this coupling here is not tight
but loose. So you can easily plug plug
this one out and plug your own solution
for identity stack. Sorry here. So
basically you can  replace the stack
basically you can replace the stack
here  and plug your own.
So what do we provide for the default
identity? We provide claim topics. These
will be non customer  anti-manual
will be non customer anti-manual
laundering  etc. For the topics
laundering etc. For the topics
we limited the topics by at most 15. We
also have trusted issuers.  these are
also have trusted issuers. these are
all separate contracts by the way. Like
this is a separate contract. This is a
separate contract. This is a separate
contract.
And the issuers, the trusted issuers
will be able to sign claims on behalf of
the users so that the users can  use
the users so that the users can use
these claims.
And
we also store the information regarding
the identities like if they are
individuals or organization
which country are they based in etc.
So the identity stack is managing all
the claims and the
topics and also the
account related information like
individual organization country
information etc.
the compliance one. So these are the
hooks. This is much more
straightforward. We have two pre hooks
and three post hooks
transferred, created and destroyed. So I
will start from the pre hooks.
Say your organization needs to run
additional business logic for transfers.
So before any transfer operation
happens, you want to run some custom
business logic, you can do that.  we
business logic, you can do that. we
have a compliance contract which will
call this hook when a transfer is about
to happen. And for this hook to work,
you can have your own contracts.
We will call them modules. [snorts] And
let's say you have a module for can
transfer. So what you would do is you
would link the compliance contract to
your can transfer module contract and
this compliance contract will call your
module on every time there is a transfer
is about to happen and the good thing is
you can deploy many contracts per one
hook. So for example, you can have three
contracts that will be called for can
transfer but five for can create which
for be minting. This is completely up to
you.  we decided to go with multiple
you. we decided to go with multiple
contracts due to audit audit
auditability and also separation of
concerns. So if you just wrote your
logic into this scan transfer and then
you wrote another logic in the scan
transfer by pure code then it would be
cumbersome to manage and debug. So
that's why all business logics separated
into their own contracts which will be
called by a relayer contract or proxy
contract is a better architecture.
The same goes for these post hooks. You
can have additional logic for all of
these.
And that summarizes
the compliance module.
So what about the access control?  you
So what about the access control? you
have few options. You can go with
ownership model or role based access
control. So it's completely up to you.
And for each kind of operation you can
assign roles have very complex role
based  access control architecture or
based access control architecture or
very simple one again completely up to
you.
We now only provide one extension for
RWA which is document manager.
[clears throat] enables you to attach
some legal documents etc to your token.
Of course, we do not store the whole
document in the blockchain like onchain.
This will be inefficient. We are
utilizing the hash.
And you can also add your own extensions
to RWA.
That will be it for the RWA. If you have
any questions, feel free to ask.
I see one question. Is RWA design based
on any existing stars? Yeah, of course.
So  we work with  tokenia and  ERC
So we work with tokenia and ERC
foundation also in collaboration with
stellar included. So all these companies
came together and based on the RWA
proposal for the Ethereum ecosystem
or general ecosystem we made it specific
to Stellar. So we made some few
deviations from the original proposal
and most of our proposals to deviate
from it
was welcomed and it will be adopted in
the original standard as well. So we
also contributed to the maturity of the
original proposal as well. So it's not
designed from scratch if that's what you
are asking.
>> Okay, great. This was three really
interesting  presentations and I think
interesting presentations and I think
it's very aligned with what we see that
developers are interested in doing.
yeah the the
pass key integration and use that for
authorization  is something that's
authorization is something that's
very big focus on I think this framework
you presented is going to help a lot of
developers  to create a robust
developers to create a robust
framework for for authorization using
pass keys  the vault is something
pass keys the vault is something
we've seen an increased interest in  a
we've seen an increased interest in a
lot of developers want to build in a way
to earn  for the tokens that the the
to earn for the tokens that the the
users are are holding in their wallet.
So very interesting as well and RWA it's
also super aligned with what what SDF is
interested in. So I think this is a
really this really hits right where the
focus is from developer sites today. So
super interesting and I think we we did
post all of the links but but otherwise
go to opensein.org
orc I believe
.com and and then  then you can you
.com and and then then you can you
can also see all the documentation
there.  let's see was one more
there. let's see was one more
comment.
Yeah, I don't think there's any any
other questions.  this is last chance
other questions. this is last chance
if anyone has a question but but thank
you both of you for for joining today.
It's super interesting to see all the
work you're doing. And I personally I
think it's super interesting to see some
of the some of the libraries you're
building, some of the frameworks and
some of the tooling when we go out to
hackathons and when we talk to
developers that we see that they're
being used. I think that's that's the
that's the greatest part of it. So So
thank you everyone  for joining and
thank you everyone for joining and
thank you you two guys  for being on
thank you you two guys for being on
here again
>> and u I'm sure we will talk again
sometime soon and  follow up on on the
sometime soon and follow up on on the
latest development. But thank you for
joining everyone. We see you next week.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> See you.